README.md, before:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/tree/master)
[![Docker Hub Automated Build](http://container.checkforupdates.com/badges/bitnami/php-fpm)](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/php-fpm/)

# What is PHP-FPM?

> PHP-FPM (FastCGI Process Manager) is an alternative PHP FastCGI implementation with some additional features useful for sites of any size, especially busier sites.

[php-fpm.org](http://php-fpm.org/)

# TLDR

```bash
docker run -it --name phpfpm -v /path/to/app:/app bitnami/php-fpm
```

## Docker Compose

```yaml
version: '2'

services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    ports:
      - '9000:9000'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/app:/app
```

# Supported tags and respective `Dockerfile` links

 - [`7.1`, `7.1.4-r0`, `latest` (7.1/Dockerfile)](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/blob/2009cefd6728d6475ac01933ef546d67713b41c8/7.1/Dockerfile)
 - [`7.0`, `7.0.18-r0` (7.0/Dockerfile)](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/blob/94d391c62e1c444193df68b25f80f1f1466d3ed7/7.0/Dockerfile)
 - [`5.6`, `5.6.30-r1` (5.6/Dockerfile)](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/blob/d2325dba1a5a07d6536836d17497884f264857fc/5.6/Dockerfile)

Subscribe to project updates by watching the [bitnami/php-fpm GitHub repo](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm).

# Get this image

The recommended way to get the Bitnami PHP-FPM Docker Image is to pull the prebuilt image from the [Docker Hub Registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/php-fpm).

```bash
docker pull bitnami/php-fpm:latest
```

To use a specific version, you can pull a versioned tag. You can view the [list of available versions](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/php-fpm/tags/) in the Docker Hub Registry.

```bash
docker pull bitnami/php-fpm:[TAG]
```

If you wish, you can also build the image yourself.

```bash
docker build -t bitnami/php-fpm https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm.git
```

# Connecting to other containers

This image is designed to be used with a web server to serve your PHP app, you can use docker networking to create a network and attach all the containers to that network.

## Serving your PHP app through an nginx frontend

We will use PHP-FPM with nginx to serve our PHP app. Doing so will allow us to setup more complex configuration, serve static assets using nginx, load balance to different PHP-FPM instances, etc.

### Step 1: Create a network

```bash
docker network create app-tier --driver bridge
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '2'

networks:
  app-tier:
    driver: bridge
```

### Step 2: Create a virtual host

Let's create an nginx virtual host to reverse proxy to our PHP-FPM container.

```nginx
server {
    listen 0.0.0.0:80;
    server_name myapp.com;

    root /app;

    location / {
        index index.php;
    }

    location ~ \.php$ {
        # fastcgi_pass [PHP_FPM_LINK_NAME]:9000;
        fastcgi_pass myapp:9000;
        fastcgi_index index.php;
        include fastcgi.conf;
    }
}
```

Notice we've substituted the link alias name `myapp`, we will use the same name when creating the container.

Copy the virtual host above, saving the file somewhere on your host. We will mount it as a volume in our nginx container.

### Step 3: Run the PHP-FPM image with a specific name

Docker's linking system uses container ids or names to reference containers. We can explicitly specify a name for our PHP-FPM server to make it easier to connect to other containers.

```bash
docker run -it --name phpfpm \
  --network app-tier
  -v /path/to/app:/app \
  bitnami/php-fpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    networks:
      - app-tier
    volumes:
      - /path/to/app:/app
```

### Step 4: Run the nginx image

```bash
docker run -it \
  -v /path/to/vhost.conf:/bitnami/nginx/conf/vhosts/yourapp.conf \
  --network app-tier \
  bitnami/nginx
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
services:
  nginx:
    image: 'bitnami/nginx:latest'
    depends_on:
      - phpfpm
    networks:
      - app-tier
    ports:
      - '80:80'
      - '443:443'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/vhost.conf:/bitnami/nginx/conf/vhosts/yourapp.conf
```

# PHP runtime

Since this image bundles a PHP runtime, you may want to make use of PHP outside of PHP-FPM. By default, running this image will start a server. To use the PHP runtime instead, we can override the the default command Docker runs by stating a different command to run after the image name.

## Entering the REPL

PHP provides a REPL where you can interactively test and try things out in PHP.

```bash
docker run -it --name phpfpm bitnami/php-fpm php -a
```

**Further Reading:**

- [PHP Interactive Shell Documentation](http://php.net/manual/en/features.commandline.interactive.php)

# Running your PHP script

The default work directory for the PHP-FPM image is `/app`. You can mount a folder from your host here that includes your PHP script, and run it normally using the `php` command.

```bash
docker run -it --name php-fpm -v /path/to/app:/app bitnami/php-fpm \
  php script.php
```

# Configuration

This container looks for configurations in `/bitnami/php-fpm/conf`. You can mount a directory at `/bitnami/php-fpm` with your own configurations in `conf/`, or the default configuration will be copied at `conf/` if it is empty.

### Step 1: Run the PHP-FPM image

Run the PHP-FPM image, mounting a directory from your host.

```bash
docker run --name phpfpm -v /path/to/php-fpm:/bitnami/php-fpm bitnami/php-fpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '2'

services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    ports:
      - '9000:9000'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/php-fpm:/bitnami/php-fpm
```

### Step 2: Edit the configuration

Edit the configuration on your host using your favorite editor.

```bash
vi /path/to/php-fpm/conf/php-fpm.conf
```

### Step 3: Restart PHP-FPM

After changing the configuration, restart your PHP-FPM container for the changes to take effect.

```bash
docker restart phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose restart phpfpm
```

# Logging

The Bitnami PHP-FPM Docker Image sends the container logs to the `stdout`. You can configure the containers [logging driver](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#logging-drivers-log-driver) using the `--log-driver` option. By defauly the `json-file` driver is used.

To view the logs:

```bash
docker logs phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose logs phpfpm
```

*The `docker logs` command is only available when the `json-file` or `journald` logging driver is in use.*

# Maintenance

## Backing up your container

To backup your configurations, follow these simple steps:

### Step 1: Stop the currently running container

```bash
docker stop phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose stop phpfpm
```

### Step 2: Run the backup command

We need to mount two volumes in a container we will use to create the backup: a directory on your host to store the backup in, and the volumes from the container we just stopped so we can access the data.

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/backups:/backups --volumes-from phpfpm busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/php-fpm /backups/latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/backups:/backups --volumes-from `docker-compose ps -q phpfpm` busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/php-fpm /backups/latest
```

## Restoring a backup

Restoring a backup is as simple as mounting the backup as volumes in the container.

```bash
docker run -v /path/to/backups/latest:/bitnami/php-fpm \
  bitnami/php-fpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '2'

services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    ports:
      - '9000:9000'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/backups/latest:/bitnami/php-fpm
```

## Upgrade this image

Bitnami provides up-to-date versions of PHP-FPM, including security patches, soon after they are made upstream. We recommend that you follow these steps to upgrade your container.

### Step 1: Get the updated image

```bash
docker pull bitnami/php-fpm:latest
```

or if you're using Docker Compose, update the value of the image property to
`bitnami/php-fpm:latest`.

### Step 2: Stop and backup the currently running container

Before continuing, you should backup your container's configuration and logs.

Follow the steps on [creating a backup](#backing-up-your-container).

### Step 3: Remove the currently running container

```bash
docker rm -v phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose rm -v phpfpm
```

### Step 4: Run the new image

Re-create your container from the new image, [restoring your backup](#restoring-a-backup) if necessary.

```bash
docker run --name phpfpm bitnami/php-fpm:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose start phpfpm
```

# Notable Changes

## 7.0.6-r0 (2016-05-17)

- All volumes have been merged at `/bitnami/php-fpm`. Now you only need to mount a single volume at `/bitnami/php-fpm` for persistence.
- The logs are always sent to the `stdout` and are no longer collected in the volume.

## 5.5.30-2 (2015-12-07)

- Enables support for imagick extension

## 5.5.30-0-r01 (2015-11-10)

- `php.ini` is now exposed in the volume mounted at `/bitnami/php-fpm/conf/` allowing users to change the defaults as per their requirements.

## 5.5.30-0 (2015-10-06)

- `/app` directory is no longer exported as a volume. This caused problems when building on top of the image, since changes in the volume are not persisted between Dockerfile `RUN` instructions. To keep the previous behavior (so that you can mount the volume in another container), create the container with the `-v /app` option.

# Contributing

We'd love for you to contribute to this Docker image. You can request new features by creating an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/issues), or submit a [pull request](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/pulls) with your contribution.

# Issues

If you encountered a problem running this container, you can file an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/issues). For us to provide better support, be sure to include the following information in your issue:

- Host OS and version
- Docker version (`docker version`)
- Output of `docker info`
- Version of this container (`echo $BITNAMI_IMAGE_VERSION` inside the container)
- The command you used to run the container, and any relevant output you saw (masking any sensitive information)

# License

Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Bitnami

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

adds bitmami-oss.slack.com team integration

README.md, after:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/tree/master)
[![Docker Hub Automated Build](http://container.checkforupdates.com/badges/bitnami/php-fpm)](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/php-fpm/)
[![Slack](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com/badge.svg)](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com)

# What is PHP-FPM?

> PHP-FPM (FastCGI Process Manager) is an alternative PHP FastCGI implementation with some additional features useful for sites of any size, especially busier sites.

[php-fpm.org](http://php-fpm.org/)

# TLDR

```bash
docker run -it --name phpfpm -v /path/to/app:/app bitnami/php-fpm
```

## Docker Compose

```yaml
version: '2'

services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    ports:
      - '9000:9000'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/app:/app
```

# Supported tags and respective `Dockerfile` links

 - [`7.1`, `7.1.4-r0`, `latest` (7.1/Dockerfile)](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/blob/2009cefd6728d6475ac01933ef546d67713b41c8/7.1/Dockerfile)
 - [`7.0`, `7.0.18-r0` (7.0/Dockerfile)](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/blob/94d391c62e1c444193df68b25f80f1f1466d3ed7/7.0/Dockerfile)
 - [`5.6`, `5.6.30-r1` (5.6/Dockerfile)](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/blob/d2325dba1a5a07d6536836d17497884f264857fc/5.6/Dockerfile)

Subscribe to project updates by watching the [bitnami/php-fpm GitHub repo](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm).

# Get this image

The recommended way to get the Bitnami PHP-FPM Docker Image is to pull the prebuilt image from the [Docker Hub Registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/php-fpm).

```bash
docker pull bitnami/php-fpm:latest
```

To use a specific version, you can pull a versioned tag. You can view the [list of available versions](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/php-fpm/tags/) in the Docker Hub Registry.

```bash
docker pull bitnami/php-fpm:[TAG]
```

If you wish, you can also build the image yourself.

```bash
docker build -t bitnami/php-fpm https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm.git
```

# Connecting to other containers

This image is designed to be used with a web server to serve your PHP app, you can use docker networking to create a network and attach all the containers to that network.

## Serving your PHP app through an nginx frontend

We will use PHP-FPM with nginx to serve our PHP app. Doing so will allow us to setup more complex configuration, serve static assets using nginx, load balance to different PHP-FPM instances, etc.

### Step 1: Create a network

```bash
docker network create app-tier --driver bridge
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '2'

networks:
  app-tier:
    driver: bridge
```

### Step 2: Create a virtual host

Let's create an nginx virtual host to reverse proxy to our PHP-FPM container.

```nginx
server {
    listen 0.0.0.0:80;
    server_name myapp.com;

    root /app;

    location / {
        index index.php;
    }

    location ~ \.php$ {
        # fastcgi_pass [PHP_FPM_LINK_NAME]:9000;
        fastcgi_pass myapp:9000;
        fastcgi_index index.php;
        include fastcgi.conf;
    }
}
```

Notice we've substituted the link alias name `myapp`, we will use the same name when creating the container.

Copy the virtual host above, saving the file somewhere on your host. We will mount it as a volume in our nginx container.

### Step 3: Run the PHP-FPM image with a specific name

Docker's linking system uses container ids or names to reference containers. We can explicitly specify a name for our PHP-FPM server to make it easier to connect to other containers.

```bash
docker run -it --name phpfpm \
  --network app-tier
  -v /path/to/app:/app \
  bitnami/php-fpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    networks:
      - app-tier
    volumes:
      - /path/to/app:/app
```

### Step 4: Run the nginx image

```bash
docker run -it \
  -v /path/to/vhost.conf:/bitnami/nginx/conf/vhosts/yourapp.conf \
  --network app-tier \
  bitnami/nginx
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
services:
  nginx:
    image: 'bitnami/nginx:latest'
    depends_on:
      - phpfpm
    networks:
      - app-tier
    ports:
      - '80:80'
      - '443:443'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/vhost.conf:/bitnami/nginx/conf/vhosts/yourapp.conf
```

# PHP runtime

Since this image bundles a PHP runtime, you may want to make use of PHP outside of PHP-FPM. By default, running this image will start a server. To use the PHP runtime instead, we can override the the default command Docker runs by stating a different command to run after the image name.

## Entering the REPL

PHP provides a REPL where you can interactively test and try things out in PHP.

```bash
docker run -it --name phpfpm bitnami/php-fpm php -a
```

**Further Reading:**

- [PHP Interactive Shell Documentation](http://php.net/manual/en/features.commandline.interactive.php)

# Running your PHP script

The default work directory for the PHP-FPM image is `/app`. You can mount a folder from your host here that includes your PHP script, and run it normally using the `php` command.

```bash
docker run -it --name php-fpm -v /path/to/app:/app bitnami/php-fpm \
  php script.php
```

# Configuration

This container looks for configurations in `/bitnami/php-fpm/conf`. You can mount a directory at `/bitnami/php-fpm` with your own configurations in `conf/`, or the default configuration will be copied at `conf/` if it is empty.

### Step 1: Run the PHP-FPM image

Run the PHP-FPM image, mounting a directory from your host.

```bash
docker run --name phpfpm -v /path/to/php-fpm:/bitnami/php-fpm bitnami/php-fpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '2'

services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    ports:
      - '9000:9000'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/php-fpm:/bitnami/php-fpm
```

### Step 2: Edit the configuration

Edit the configuration on your host using your favorite editor.

```bash
vi /path/to/php-fpm/conf/php-fpm.conf
```

### Step 3: Restart PHP-FPM

After changing the configuration, restart your PHP-FPM container for the changes to take effect.

```bash
docker restart phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose restart phpfpm
```

# Logging

The Bitnami PHP-FPM Docker Image sends the container logs to the `stdout`. You can configure the containers [logging driver](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#logging-drivers-log-driver) using the `--log-driver` option. By defauly the `json-file` driver is used.

To view the logs:

```bash
docker logs phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose logs phpfpm
```

*The `docker logs` command is only available when the `json-file` or `journald` logging driver is in use.*

# Maintenance

## Backing up your container

To backup your configurations, follow these simple steps:

### Step 1: Stop the currently running container

```bash
docker stop phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose stop phpfpm
```

### Step 2: Run the backup command

We need to mount two volumes in a container we will use to create the backup: a directory on your host to store the backup in, and the volumes from the container we just stopped so we can access the data.

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/backups:/backups --volumes-from phpfpm busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/php-fpm /backups/latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/backups:/backups --volumes-from `docker-compose ps -q phpfpm` busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/php-fpm /backups/latest
```

## Restoring a backup

Restoring a backup is as simple as mounting the backup as volumes in the container.

```bash
docker run -v /path/to/backups/latest:/bitnami/php-fpm \
  bitnami/php-fpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '2'

services:
  phpfpm:
    image: 'bitnami/php-fpm:latest'
    ports:
      - '9000:9000'
    volumes:
      - /path/to/backups/latest:/bitnami/php-fpm
```

## Upgrade this image

Bitnami provides up-to-date versions of PHP-FPM, including security patches, soon after they are made upstream. We recommend that you follow these steps to upgrade your container.

### Step 1: Get the updated image

```bash
docker pull bitnami/php-fpm:latest
```

or if you're using Docker Compose, update the value of the image property to
`bitnami/php-fpm:latest`.

### Step 2: Stop and backup the currently running container

Before continuing, you should backup your container's configuration and logs.

Follow the steps on [creating a backup](#backing-up-your-container).

### Step 3: Remove the currently running container

```bash
docker rm -v phpfpm
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose rm -v phpfpm
```

### Step 4: Run the new image

Re-create your container from the new image, [restoring your backup](#restoring-a-backup) if necessary.

```bash
docker run --name phpfpm bitnami/php-fpm:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose start phpfpm
```

# Notable Changes

## 7.0.6-r0 (2016-05-17)

- All volumes have been merged at `/bitnami/php-fpm`. Now you only need to mount a single volume at `/bitnami/php-fpm` for persistence.
- The logs are always sent to the `stdout` and are no longer collected in the volume.

## 5.5.30-2 (2015-12-07)

- Enables support for imagick extension

## 5.5.30-0-r01 (2015-11-10)

- `php.ini` is now exposed in the volume mounted at `/bitnami/php-fpm/conf/` allowing users to change the defaults as per their requirements.

## 5.5.30-0 (2015-10-06)

- `/app` directory is no longer exported as a volume. This caused problems when building on top of the image, since changes in the volume are not persisted between Dockerfile `RUN` instructions. To keep the previous behavior (so that you can mount the volume in another container), create the container with the `-v /app` option.

# Contributing

We'd love for you to contribute to this Docker image. You can request new features by creating an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/issues), or submit a [pull request](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/pulls) with your contribution.

# Issues

If you encountered a problem running this container, you can file an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-php-fpm/issues). For us to provide better support, be sure to include the following information in your issue:

- Host OS and version
- Docker version (`docker version`)
- Output of `docker info`
- Version of this container (`echo $BITNAMI_IMAGE_VERSION` inside the container)
- The command you used to run the container, and any relevant output you saw (masking any sensitive information)

# Community

Most real time communication happens in the `#containers` channel at [bitnami-oss.slack.com](http://bitnami-oss.slack.com); you can sign up at [slack.oss.bitnami.com](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com).

Discussions are archived at [bitnami-oss.slackarchive.io](https://bitnami-oss.slackarchive.io).

# License

Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Bitnami

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
